What is cloud?

It is like a virtual server.
In this cloud we can store our files and we can access them through internet from anywhere in world.

What is cloud computing?

Cloud Computing Is the on- demand delivery [We use this when we needed]of compute power, data storage, application and other resources.
Through a cloud service platform with pay-as-you-go pricing.

Deployment Models

Public Cloud
Private Cloud
Hybrid Cloud


1.Public Cloud:
Cloud resources owned and operated by a 3rd party cloud service provider delivered over the Internet.
Ex: google,amazon,microsoft

2. Private Cloud:
A private cloud used by single organization, not exposed to public, complete contro, 
security for sensitive application.


3. Hybrid Cloud:

A hybrid cloud consists the functionalities of both private and public cloud

Characterstics of Cloud Computing:

On Demand self service
Broad Network access 
Multi tenancy & Resource pooling
Rapid Elasticity & Scalability
Measured Service

Advantages of Cloud Computing:

Backup and restore data
 Improved Collaboration 
Excellent Accessibility 
Low maintenance cost
Mobility
Unlimited storage
Data Security
Pay- as- per-use


Problems solved by Cloud

Flexibility
Cost Effective 
Scalability
Elasticity
High Availability and fault tolerance
Agility


TYPE OF CLOUD Computing:

Service Models:
    Cloud provide some services 

IaaS(Infrastructure as a Service)
PaaS(Platform as a Service)
SaaS(Software As a Service)

IaaS(Infrastructure as a Service
------------------------------------------------------

Provides virtual machine to customers as per requirement by cloud provider
Provides network, computers, data storage space
Ex: If the user wants a Linux machine, he gets a Linux machine, If the user wants a Windows machine, he gets a windows machine,

PaaS(Platform as a Service)
--------------------------------------------------------------
PaaS is a complete development and deployment or management of your application in the cloud

Ex:  No need to worry about server it will deploy our own code


SaaS(Software As a Service)
----------------------------------------------
SaaS applications (Web-based software, on-demand software, or hosted software)
It is a cloud-based software delivery model that allows SaaS applications to run on SaaS providers' servers instead of installing and maintaining software on-premises.
Ex: Netflix, AWS.


We have some major companies delivering the Cloud Computing Services(Service Providers). Some notable examples include the following:
Amazon: Amazon Web Service(AWS) 
Google: Google Cloud Platform
Microsoft: Microsoft Azure

Pricing of the cloud
Pay- as- you-go -pricing-model
Compute
Storage
Data transfer out of the cloud









